<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<title>Sword Art Online 1: Aincrad</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:3c6d9d4f-15c4-4261-a9d2-0c6bda3ad832" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter005d">
<p><a id="page-61"/>She turned an exasperated eye to me as I stammered.</p>
<p>“I’m assuming you don’t have any of the necessary tools. But given the value of your ingredients, I might be willing to let you use my room,” she offered, shockingly enough.</p>
<p>My brain lagged as it struggled to comprehend her meaning. Asuna turned to the two guardsmen who made up her escort. “I’m going to teleport straight to Selmburg. I won’t need my guard for the rest of the day. You may go.”</p>
<p>The long-haired man exploded as though he’d been holding in his rage for quite a while. If the fidelity on <em>SAO</em>’s facial expressions were finer, he’d have had two or three purple veins bulging out of his forehead.</p>
<p>“L-Lady Asuna! It’s bad enough that you’re visiting this slum, but I cannot allow you to bring such a suspect individual into your home!”</p>
<p>His exaggerated mannerisms made me wince. “Lady” Asuna? He was probably no better than her obsessed stalker fans. I noticed that she seemed just as exasperated as I was.</p>
<p>“His character aside, he’s a worthy fighter. He’s probably got at least ten levels on you, Kuradeel.”</p>
<p>“Th-that’s preposterous! How could I possibly be inferior to…”</p>
<p>The high-pitched protest echoed off the alley walls. His sunken, glaring eyes fixed on me, then widened with comprehension.</p>
<p>“That’s it! You’re a beater, aren’t you?”</p>
<p><em>Beater</em> was an epithet unique to <em>SAO</em>, a portmanteau of <em>beta tester</em> and <em>cheater</em>. I’d heard the slur time and time again, but it always caused a certain level of pain. The image of someone I’d once called a friend flashed through my mind—the first person to ever say the word to my face.</p>
<p>“Yeah, that’s right,” I said without expression, but he continued more forcefully than before.</p>
<p>“Lady Asuna, he doesn’t care for anyone but himself! Nothing good can come from fraternizing with his kind!”</p>
<p>Asuna had been playing it cool, but now her brows knitted together in displeasure. A crowd was starting to gather around <a id="page-62"/>us, and I could hear the words <em>KoB</em> and <em>Asuna</em> being murmured. She took note of the increased interest and turned on Kuradeel, who showed no signs of regaining his composure.</p>
<p>“I told you to leave. That’s an order from your vice commander,” she growled, grabbing the rear belt of my coat and pulling me backward. She began tugging us toward the main square.</p>
<p>“H-hang on, are you sure about this?”</p>
<p>“I’m sure!”</p>
<p>Well, who was I to argue? We left the two guardsmen and the crestfallen Agil behind and slipped into the throng. I took one last backward glance. The picture of Kuradeel glaring with fury stuck in my mind like an afterimage.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>