<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<title>Sword Art Online 1: Aincrad</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:3c6d9d4f-15c4-4261-a9d2-0c6bda3ad832" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter021b">
<p>As I focused, the system automatically brought up the yellow cursor with the monster’s name on it: the Skullreaper.</p>
<p>Its countless legs squirming, the skeletal centipede slowly crawled across the dome as we watched in shocked silence. Suddenly, it released all of its legs and dropped straight on top of the party.</p>
<p>“Don’t freeze up! Keep your distance!”</p>
<p>Heathcliff’s sharp cry cut the icy air. Everyone moved, regaining his or her senses. We scrambled to avoid the spot where it dropped. But three players couldn’t avoid its descent quickly enough. They looked up, momentarily caught unsure of which direction to go.</p>
<p>“This way!” I screamed. They finally snapped into a run, but—</p>
<p>The moment the centipede landed, the colossal impact shook the floor. The three men stumbled and lost their balance. The monster swung out with its right “arm”—more of an elongated scythe of bone, the blade as long as a human being—and swiped all three.</p>
<p>They were tossed into the air from behind. As I watched their flight, their HP bars plummeted with terrifying speed—into the yellow warning zone, then the red danger zone, then…</p>
<p>“…?!”</p>
<p>And just like that, to zero. Their bodies, still in midair, shattered unceremoniously. The explosions echoed throughout the chamber.</p>
<p>“…!!”</p>
<p>Asuna drew a sharp breath next to me. I could feel my body tense up.</p>
<p><a id="page-208"/>Dead in one hit?</p>
<p>Players powered up in <em>SAO</em> through their level and skills. As your level rose, so did your maximum HP, so even if your ability with the sword was average, as long as your level was reasonably high, it was mathematically much less likely that you would die. And today’s party was exclusively high-level players, so any one of us should have been able to handle even a full combination attack from a boss. The key word being <em>should</em>. But in one simple blow…</p>
<p>“This is insanity,” Asuna muttered.</p>
<p>The skeleton centipede raised itself off the ground, let out a deafening roar, then charged into a fresh group of victims.</p>
<p>“Aaaah!!”</p>
<p>Screams of terror issued from that direction. The bone scythe was raised again.</p>
<p>A shadow leaped into the path of its fall: Heathcliff. He raised his massive shield and greeted the scythe. There was an ear-wrenching collision. Sparks flew.</p>
<p>But that was only one of two scythes. The left arm continued attacking Heathcliff, while the right swung upward and darted toward a mass of frozen players.</p>
<p>“Shit!”</p>
<p>I leaped forward without a second thought, flying through the air to close the gap, then maneuvering into the downward path of the scythe with a deafening blast. I crossed my swords to block the blow.</p>
<p>The impact was unfathomable. But the scythe kept coming. Despite the sparks, it kept pushing my swords backward, right under my nose.</p>
<p><em>Damn, it’s so heavy!</em></p>
<p>Suddenly, a new sword trailing white light sliced upward and caught the scythe from below. Another shock wave. As soon as I felt its force relent, I summoned all of my strength and pushed the bone scythe back.</p>
<p>Asuna turned to look at me for a split second and called out, <a id="page-209"/>“We can manage if we take it at the same time! We can do this together!”</p>
<p>“Great, back me up!” I nodded. Just the thought of her next to me filled me with infinite willpower, it seemed.</p>
<p>The scythe swooped toward us again, sideways this time, but we blocked it with simultaneous diagonal slashes. Our synchronized attacks created a ribbon of light that struck the scythe, sending off another powerful blast. This time, the foe’s arm faltered backward.</p>
<p>I raised my voice to shout above the din.</p>
<p>“We’ll stop its scythe! You attack it from the flanks!”</p>
<p>That command seemed to snap the group’s paralysis. The others raised brave cheers and plunged into the Skullreaper’s body, weapons raised. Multiple attacks struck the foe solidly, and for the first time, I saw its HP bar dip slightly.</p>
<p>In just a moment, screams arose. When I had the time between scythe strikes to see, I noticed a long, spear-like bone at the centipede’s tail throwing more human figures into the air.</p>
<p>“Damn…”</p>
<p>I gritted my teeth. Asuna and I were trying to hold down the right scythe, Heathcliff the left, but we couldn’t last much longer.</p>
<p>“Kirito!”</p>
<p>I turned to look at Asuna.</p>
<p><em>—Don’t look away! Distractions will only get you killed!</em></p>
<p><em>—You’re right…here it comes!</em></p>
<p><em>—Block it on the upper left!</em></p>
<p>We shared information with just an exchange of glances, then blocked the scythe in perfect rhythm.</p>
<p>We forced ourselves to ignore the occasional screams from players around us, focusing solely on blocking the creature’s deadly blows. Somehow, as it went on, not only did we stop needing to share words, but looks as well. It was as though we were plugged directly into each other’s minds. We instantly used the exact same moves to block the enemy’s breathless attacks.</p>
<p>In the moment, locked in the midst of the most extreme of <a id="page-210"/>battles, I felt a sense of unity I’d never known before. Asuna and I had melded into a single, sword-swinging force of combat—in a way, it was an incredibly sensual experience. The occasional heavy attack from the monster knocked off slight amounts of our HP bit by bit, but it was completely out of mind.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>