<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<title>Sword Art Online 1: Aincrad</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:3c6d9d4f-15c4-4261-a9d2-0c6bda3ad832" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter009b">
<p><a id="page-99"/>Asuna gave in to her nerves and grasped my entire arm, but I didn’t have the presence of mind to enjoy it. A massive shape was steadily approaching from behind the thrashing dance of fire.</p>
<p>Muscles taut as ropes rippled up its towering form. Its skin was a deep blue to match the tint of the flames, and the head that rested atop the thick chest was not a human’s but a goat’s. Thick, twisted horns stretched backward from the sides of its head. The eyes glinted with the same blue-white hue but were clearly trained directly at us. Its lower half was covered in long navy hair, and although it was hard to see behind the flame, the legs looked bestial as well. In short, it matched the classic description of a demon.</p>
<p>There was a considerable distance from the center of the chamber to the door, and yet we stood immobilized, as though it were nearly upon us. I’d fought countless creatures during my two years in <em>SAO</em>, but I’d never seen a demon. Sure, they appeared in plenty of RPGs, but face-to-face with the real thing, it was impossible to stifle a primal terror from emerging.</p>
<p>I timidly focused my eyes and read the name off of the cursor that appeared. “The Gleameyes”—this was most definitely the boss of the labyrinth. Every named boss was preceded by a definitive “the” that marked it as unique. This one was named for its shining eyes.</p>
<p>As soon as I put it all together, the blue demon raised its elongated snout and let out a rumbling bellow. The columns of fire rippled, and the ground vibrated beneath my feet. It snorted pale blue breath, raised the massive sword in its right hand…and charged for us with stunning speed, the ground rattling.</p>
<p>“Aaaaah!”</p>
<p>“Kyaaaa!”</p>
<p>We screamed together, turned, and sprinted at full speed. I knew on principle that boss monsters couldn’t leave their chambers, but I couldn’t force myself to rely on that now. I let my significant agility stat do the work, speeding down the long hallway like a burst of wind.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>