<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<title>Sword Art Online 1: Aincrad</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:3c6d9d4f-15c4-4261-a9d2-0c6bda3ad832" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter021">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a id="page-201"/><a href="toc.xhtml#toc-chapter021">21</a></h1>
<p class="noindent">The gate square in Collinia, the city on the seventy-fifth floor, was already full of high-level players who were likely in the raiding party. When Asuna and I stepped out of the gate and toward them, they all stopped talking and turned concerned gazes to us. Some of them even gave us the guild’s special salute.</p>
<p>I stopped and hesitated, but Asuna returned the salute with familiarity. She jabbed me in the ribs.</p>
<p>“C’mon, Kirito. You’re one of the leaders, so greet the team!”</p>
<p>“Wha…”</p>
<p>I gave an awkward salute. I’d taken part in several boss battle parties before, but this was the first time I’d attracted so much attention.</p>
<p>“Yo!”</p>
<p>I felt a pat on my shoulder and turned around to see Klein with his familiar katana and ugly bandanna. More surprising was the figure next to him: large, heavy Agil, ax at the ready.</p>
<p>“You guys are doing this, too?”</p>
<p>“Don’t act so surprised!” Agil called out, aggrieved. “I heard this battle was supposed to be a tough one, so I nobly set my business aside to participate. If you can’t appreciate my selfless gesture…”</p>
<p>He rattled on exaggeratedly. I patted Agil on the arm.</p>
<p><a id="page-202"/>“Trust me, I know all about your self-sacrifice. It’s why you elected not to take a share of the loot, right?”</p>
<p>This time, he placed a hand to his bald head and grimaced. “W-well, I don’t know if I’d go <em>that</em> far,” he whined. Klein and Asuna laughed together. The laughter spread to the other players, and suddenly the group’s nerves had eased a bit.</p>
<p>At one o’clock on the dot, a number of new players emerged from the gate. Heathcliff was outfitted with his red cape and crucifix shield, joined by the other KoB elite. Upon their appearance, the tension returned to the rest of the group.</p>
<p>In terms of level alone, Heathcliff was probably the only one who outranked Asuna and me, but it was hard not to be impressed by the guild’s sense of unity. Outside of the red-and-white colors, their equipment was varied, but the group aura they exuded was far stronger than the Army’s.</p>
<p>The paladin and his four followers crossed through the group and walked toward us. Klein and Agil took several steps back, as though rebuffed by their personal force, but Asuna returned the salute coolly.</p>
<p>Heathcliff stopped and gave us a nod, then turned to address the entire gathering. “It seems we’re all here. Thank you for coming. I believe you are all aware of the stakes. It will be a terrible battle, but I believe in your ability to emerge victorious. For the day of liberation!”</p>
<p>With a powerful cry, the entire group echoed his enthusiasm. His magnetic charisma left me speechless. Hard-core gamers typically trended toward the antisocial and uncooperative, so it was a surprise to see one display such leadership. Or was it this world that brought that quality out of him?</p>
<p>Heathcliff turned to me, as though sensing my gaze, and gave me a slight grin.</p>
<p>“I need your help today, Kirito. Put your Dual Blades to the test.”</p>
<p>I didn’t sense a hint of desperation or tension in his soft voice. <a id="page-203"/>Only a man with nerves of steel could face the upcoming battle with such confidence.</p>
<p>I nodded silently. Heathcliff turned back to the group again and raised a hand.</p>
<p>“Let’s get going. I’m opening a corridor to the spot right in front of the enemy’s lair.”</p>
<p>He pulled a dark blue crystal out of his waistpouch, and a murmur ran through the crowd. Normal teleport crystals transported the user to the floor of his or her choosing, but Heathcliff’s corridor crystal was an exceedingly useful version that temporarily opened an entire teleport gate, offering access to the specified location to anyone who wanted to use it.</p>
<p>The downside to that utility was its rarity, and the crystal wasn’t available to buy at NPC shops. It had to be found in labyrinth treasure chests or looted from powerful monsters, so few players even wanted to use them, if they were lucky enough to get their hands on one. In fact, the murmuring of the players was not so much excitement over the glimpse of such a rare item, but rather surprise that he’d actually use one.</p>
<p>Seemingly unaware of the stir he’d raised, Heathcliff raised the crystal high and called out, “Corridor open.” The exceedingly valuable crystal crumbled instantly, and a flickering portal of blue light appeared before him.</p>
<p>“Follow me, everyone.”</p>
<p>He turned to look over the group, then whirled his red cape and stepped into the light. For an instant he flashed blindingly, then disappeared. Seconds later, the four KoB members followed him.</p>
<p>Over time, the gathering in the square had grown to a considerable number. Perhaps they’d arrived to see us off, knowing that we were about to tackle a boss. Cheers of encouragement rose as the swordsmen trickled through the new teleport gate, one after the other.</p>
<p>Finally, only Asuna and I were left. We nodded to each other, held hands, then stepped into the vortex of light together.</p>
<p class="space-break"><a id="page-204"/>Teleporting always left me a bit dizzy. When I was able to open my eyes, I was inside the labyrinth, in a wide hallway. Thick pillars lined the walls, and a giant door was visible at the end.</p>
<p>The seventy-fifth-floor labyrinth was made of a material like obsidian, but with a very faint hint of translucence. Unlike the rough-hewn nature of the lower-level labyrinths, the black stone here was polished like a mirror and placed at perfectly straight angles. The air was chilly and damp, and a faint mist trailed over the floor.</p>
<p>Next to me, Asuna wrapped her arms around herself, feeling the chill.</p>
<p>“…I don’t like the look of this…”</p>
<p>“Nope.”</p>
<p>I nodded.</p>
<p>In the two years leading up to today, we’d conquered seventy-four bosses. With that much experience, you learned to gauge the strength of the foes by the look of their lairs.</p>
<p>Around us, the thirty other players were bunched into groups of two or three, their windows open. They were checking their equipment and items, but they all looked tense.</p>
<p>I walked Asuna over to one of the pillars and put an arm around her frail body. I could feel my nerves working before the battle. My body trembled with anxiety.</p>
<p>“…It’s going to be okay,” Asuna whispered into my ear. “I’m going to watch over you.”</p>
<p>“That’s not what I’m—”</p>
<p>“Hee hee.” She gave a little smile and continued. “And you can watch over me.”</p>
<p>“Yeah…you bet.”</p>
<p>I squeezed harder for an instant, then released my grip. In the middle of the corridor, Heathcliff let his armor clank loudly and spoke to the group.</p>
<p>“Is everyone ready? We have no information about this boss’s attack patterns. The Knights of the Blood will take forward <a id="page-205"/>position to absorb its attacks. Observe its patterns as best you can and strike back, being as flexible as you can manage.”</p>
<p>The group nodded silently.</p>
<p>“Well, best of luck,” Heathcliff murmured, then strode over to the obsidian door and placed a hand upon it. We tensed up.</p>
<p>I patted Agil and Klein on the shoulders from behind, speaking as they turned to me.</p>
<p>“Don’t die on me.”</p>
<p>“Just worry about yourself.”</p>
<p>“I’m not getting knocked out while there are spoils to be had.”</p>
<p>After the bravado of their replies, the door slowly slid open, creaking heavily. All present drew their weapons. I pulled both of mine over my back. I looked over at Asuna and her rapier and nodded.</p>
<p>Finally, Heathcliff drew his longsword from behind his cross-shaped shield, raised it high, and shouted, “Let the battle begin!”</p>
<p>He charged through the open doorway. We followed.</p>
<p>The interior was a large domed space, probably as large as the coliseum that had played host to my duel with Heathcliff. The black curved walls rose high, forming a round ceiling far above our heads. We rushed inside, lined up naturally, then heard the enormous rumble of the door closing behind us. It probably wasn’t going to open again—not until the boss was dead or we were.</p>
<p>Several seconds of silence passed. I tried to concentrate on every direction from our position, but the boss showed no signs of appearing. Each second ticking by was torture on my frayed nerves.</p>
<p>“Hey,” someone called out, unable to bear the silence any longer.</p>
<p>“Above!” Asuna cried next to me. I looked up with a start.</p>
<p>It was stuck to the top of the dome.</p>
<p>Enormous. Deadly. And long.</p>
<p><em>A centipede?</em> I thought in the moment. It had to be at least ten meters long. The body was split into several segments, but the <a id="page-207"/>structure was more like a human backbone than the thorax of an insect. Each gray, cylindrical segment had spiny legs that looked like exposed bone. Following the trail, I saw the body widen until it reached a wicked-looking skull. It wasn’t human. The cranium was more elongated, with two sets of slanted eye sockets, blue fires burning inside the cavities. The protruding jawbone was lined with sharp fangs, and two scythe-shaped arms of bone extended from the sides of the skull.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>