<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<title>Sword Art Online 1: Aincrad</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:3c6d9d4f-15c4-4261-a9d2-0c6bda3ad832" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter022b">
<p>—But Kayaba was simply waiting for me to fall into the system’s preprogrammed combination. For the first time, his mouth displayed signs of emotion. But unlike our last fight, this was a smile of certain victory.</p>
<p>After the first few swings of the combo, I realized my mistake. At the very end, I’d relied on the system for help, rather than my own instincts. I couldn’t break out of the combo partway—it would freeze me momentarily. But Kayaba knew each and every attack in this string.</p>
<p>As blow after blow was parried easily by Kayaba’s crucifix shield, the only thing I could do was breathe a silent apology.</p>
<p><em>I’m sorry, Asuna…At least I know you’ll still be alive…</em></p>
<p>The twenty-seventh and final left thrust struck the center of the shield in a shower of sparks. The next instant, the sword in my left hand gave a metallic screech and shattered into pieces.</p>
<p>“Farewell, Kirito.”</p>
<p>Kayaba’s longsword was held high over my head, glowing crimson. It swung downward, a blur the color of blood—</p>
<p class="space-break">In that instant, a voice, loud and fierce, echoed inside my head.</p>
<p><em>I’m going…to watch over you!!</em></p>
<p>With incredible speed, a human blur darted between Kayaba’s glowing blade and me. Chestnut hair flipped through the air.</p>
<p><em>Asuna…why?!</em></p>
<p>She should have been paralyzed by the game system itself. But she stood before me, her chest held high, both arms extended.</p>
<p>I could see surprise on Kayaba’s face. But no one could stop his attack now. It all moved in horrifying slow motion, the sword slicing Asuna from shoulder to breast.</p>
<p>I lurched forward desperately, reaching out for her as she fell. She crumpled into my arms, soundless.</p>
<p>Our eyes met. She smiled faintly. Her HP bar was gone.</p>
<p class="space-break"><a id="page-224"/>Time stood still.</p>
<p class="space-break">Evening. Meadow. Breeze. A slight chill.</p>
<p>We sat on the hill side by side, gazing out on the lake, the reddish-gold setting sun melting into deep blue.</p>
<p>Leaves rustled. Birds called as they returned to their nests.</p>
<p>She slipped her hand into mine, leaned her head on my shoulder.</p>
<p>The clouds trailed past. Stars began to twinkle, one, then two.</p>
<p>We silently observed the colors of the world shift and blur.</p>
<p>Eventually, she spoke up.</p>
<p>“I’m a little sleepy. Mind if I use your legs as a pillow?”</p>
<p>I smiled and answered, “Go right ahead. Good night…”</p>
<p class="space-break">Just like then, Asuna looked up at me from my arms, her face beaming, her eyes full of love. But the weight and the warmth of that previous time were gone.</p>
<p>Her body slowly took on a golden glow. Motes of light separated and scattered.</p>
<p>“This can’t be…Asuna…why…? Why did you…?”</p>
<p>My voice trembled. But the light mercilessly glowed brighter.</p>
<p>A single tear fell from her eye, sparkled momentarily, then vanished. Her lips moved, faintly, carving the sounds.</p>
<p class="space-break">I ’ m   s o r r y .</p>
<p class="space-break">G o o d - b y e .</p>
<p class="space-break"><em>Swish…</em></p>
<p>The light in my arms flashed, then burst, countless golden feathers floating through the air.</p>
<p>And then she was gone.</p>
<p class="space-break">I scrambled to regain the floating lights, a voiceless scream ripping my throat. But the golden feathers blew away as though <a id="page-225"/>on a gust of wind, spreading out, evaporating. Disappearing. Forever.</p>
<p class="space-break">This can never happen. It should not. It can’t. It can’t—</p>
<p>I crumpled to my knees. The final feather floated downward to rest on my hand, then blinked out.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>