<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<title>Sword Art Online 1: Aincrad</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:3c6d9d4f-15c4-4261-a9d2-0c6bda3ad832" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter016b">
<p><a id="page-170"/>“…If you…dig deep in the options…there’s a ‘Moral Code Removal’ setting.”</p>
<p>I had no idea. There certainly wasn’t anything like that in the beta, nor in the manual. This was a very unexpected way to pay the price for not caring about anything but fighting while I was in <em>SAO</em>.</p>
<p>But this revelation led to another suspicion. Before my better sense could intervene, I spoke it out loud.</p>
<p>“Does that mean…you’ve done this befo—”</p>
<p>Her fist exploded in my face again.</p>
<p>“O-of course I haven’t! I found out about it from someone in the guild!”</p>
<p>I hastily prostrated myself and apologized over and over. It took several minutes to defuse the situation.</p>
<p class="space-break">A single tiny candle placed on the table was the only thing that lit Asuna as she lay in my arms. I traced the pale skin of her back with a finger. Just that warm, smooth sensation coming through my fingertips was pure intoxication.</p>
<p>Asuna’s eyes opened slightly, batted several times, and she smiled at me.</p>
<p>“Sorry, did I wake you?”</p>
<p>“Mm…I was dreaming. Of the old world…It’s weird.”</p>
<p>She rested her face against my chest, still smiling.</p>
<p>“In my dream, I got so worried. I was afraid that everything about Aincrad, and the fact that I met you here, was a dream of its own. I’m glad it didn’t turn out to be that way.”</p>
<p>“That’s weird. Don’t you want to leave?”</p>
<p>“I do, I do. But I don’t want to lose the time I’ve spent here. We’ve come a really long way…but these two years are very important to me. I realize that now.”</p>
<p>She looked serious for a moment, then took my hand off her shoulder and held it to her chest.</p>
<p>“I’m sorry, Kirito…It should have been me who finished that fight.”</p>
<p><a id="page-171"/>I sucked in a quick breath, then let it out slowly.</p>
<p>“No…Kuradeel went after me, and I was the one who drove him to do what he did. That was my battle.”</p>
<p>I stared into Asuna’s eyes and gave a slow nod.</p>
<p>Her hazel eyes were faintly brimming with tears. She raised my hand to her lips. I could feel their gentle touch.</p>
<p>“I’ll be there to help bear what you bear. We’ll carry it together. I promise. No matter what happens, I’ll be there to protect you.”</p>
<p>Those were the words.</p>
<p>The words that I’d never been able to utter up to this point. And now, my lips trembling, the words came tumbling out of my throat—out of my soul.</p>
<p>“…And I…”</p>
<p>The faint sounds barely pushed the air.</p>
<p>“…will be there to protect you.”</p>
<p>It was so tiny, so doubtful, so unconvincing. I couldn’t help but grimace, and then I squeezed her hand back.</p>
<p>“You’re strong, Asuna. Much stronger than me…”</p>
<p>She blinked at this, then smiled.</p>
<p>“That’s not true. In the other world, I was always the type to hide behind someone else. I didn’t even buy this game for myself.”</p>
<p>She giggled, remembering something.</p>
<p>“My brother bought it and had to go on a work trip, so I got to try it out on the very first day. It was so hard for him to leave without it, and now I’ve been hogging it for two years. I bet he’s so angry.”</p>
<p>It seemed to me like she’d gotten the worse side of that deal, but I nodded in agreement.</p>
<p>“You need to get back and say you’re sorry.”</p>
<p>“Yeah…I’ve got my work cut out for me.”</p>
<p>But those brave words came mumbled, and she looked away nervously. Asuna squeezed her entire body against me.</p>
<p>“Hey…Kirito. I realize this contradicts what I just said, but…do you think maybe we should leave the front lines for a bit?”</p>
<p>“Huh…?”</p>
<p><a id="page-172"/>“I’m just scared…We’ve finally connected in this powerful way, and I can’t help but feel like going back into battle will lead to some terrible thing happening…Maybe I’m just tired of this.”</p>
<p>I brushed her hair with my fingers and was surprised to find myself agreeing with her.</p>
<p>“Good point…I’m tired, too.”</p>
<p>You didn’t need dwindling stat numbers to notice that day after day of stressful combat took its toll. Especially when it involved extreme shock like today. Even the strongest bowstring will snap if you keep pulling on it. A little rest was necessary sometimes.</p>
<p>I could feel the impulse that drove me to battle, something that felt a bit like peril, drifting further away. All I wanted to do right now was be with this girl, to grow closer together.</p>
<p>I put both arms around her and buried my face in her silken hair.</p>
<p>“There’s a nice place down in the southwest region of floor twenty-two. Lots of forests and lakes, no monsters. There’s a tranquil little village there. Couple of log cabins available to buy. Let’s move down there. And then…”</p>
<p>When I paused to find the right words, Asuna turned her sparkling eyes to me.</p>
<p>“And then…?”</p>
<p>I forced my stubborn tongue to continue.</p>
<p>“L…let’s get married.”</p>
<p>I’ll never forget the smile she gave me then.</p>
<p>“…Okay.”</p>
<p>One large tear rolled down her cheek as she nodded.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>