<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<title>Sword Art Online 1: Aincrad</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:3c6d9d4f-15c4-4261-a9d2-0c6bda3ad832" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter007b">
<p><a id="page-82"/>“I’ll wait if you want to switch weapons…but I think we’ve settled this.”</p>
<p>Kuradeel did not look at me, but he scraped his nails into the stones with apparent rage, his frame quivering. Finally, his voice grating, he said, “I resign,” in English. It would have been perfectly valid to say it in Japanese, though.</p>
<p>The purple text flashed again in the same location, this time marking the end of the duel and announcing the winner. Another cheer rose from the throng. Kuradeel lurched to his feet and screamed at the onlookers.</p>
<p>“This isn’t a sideshow! Move along!” He slowly turned to face me. “I will kill you…On my word, you will die by my hand.”</p>
<p>I couldn’t deny that the look in his eyes sent a shiver down my spine. <em>SAO</em>’s emotion display engine may have had a penchant for being overly expressive, but even accounting for that, the sheer hatred in Kuradeel’s beady eyes was more ferocious than any monster. I held back silently as someone stepped forward beside me.</p>
<p>“Kuradeel, as vice commander of the Knights of the Blood, I hereby relieve you of your guard duty. Return to guild headquarters to await further orders.”</p>
<p>Asuna’s voice was even frostier than her look suggested, but I could sense the note of suppressed pain in it and unconsciously put a hand on her shoulder. Her tense body shifted slightly, leaning some of its weight on me.</p>
<p>“…Wh…wha…? You…little…”</p>
<p>I heard it faintly. Kuradeel glared at us, a hundred foul curses and epithets spilling out under his breath. I could see the gears working in his head, a plot forming to equip his backup weapon and attack us, anti-crime limitations be damned.</p>
<p>But he controlled himself and pulled a teleport crystal from the underside of his cape. Gripping it so tightly he could have crushed the stone, he sputtered, “T-teleport: Grandzam.” Kuradeel continued glaring at us with sheer loathing until the blue light subsided and he disappeared for good.</p>
<p><a id="page-83"/>The square hung with an uncomfortable silence. The onlookers all appeared as shocked as though Kuradeel had directed his vitriol directly at them, and bit by bit, they broke off and wandered away. Finally, only Asuna and I remained.</p>
<p>My mind screamed at me to say something, anything, but I’d spent the last two years honing my skills in combat, not mingling in society. I didn’t have anything clever or considerate to say. I wasn’t even sure if it was a good thing that I’d accepted the duel and won.</p>
<p>Asuna finally took a step away and said, without any of her usual vigor, “I’m sorry. You didn’t need to be dragged into that.”</p>
<p>“Uh, I’m fine. How are you doing?”</p>
<p>The vice commander of the most powerful guild in the game shook her head slowly, flashing a brave but frail smile.</p>
<p>“Well, I suppose I’m partially responsible for pushing the guild to follow rules in order to prioritize beating the game…”</p>
<p>“I don’t think you can be blamed for that. I mean, if it wasn’t for people like you, we’d be way further behind on conquering the castle. I know that means nothing coming from a solo player like me. But…what I mean is…”</p>
<p>I’d totally lost sight of what I wanted to say and grasped for the right words.</p>
<p>“If you feel like you need to take a breather by partying up with someone irresponsible like me, I don’t think anyone has a right to blame you for it.”</p>
<p>Asuna looked stunned. She blinked several times, then broke into a halfhearted grin.</p>
<p>“Well…thanks for saying that. Maybe I will accept your offer and take it easy for a day. Thanks for taking forward position!”</p>
<p>She spun around and headed toward the town gate.</p>
<p>“Uh, hey, you’re supposed to trade off at forward!” I complained, breathed a sigh of relief, and followed the swaying chestnut hair.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>