<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<title>Sword Art Online 1: Aincrad</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:3c6d9d4f-15c4-4261-a9d2-0c6bda3ad832" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter003b">
<p class="space-break"><a id="page-25"/>I didn’t immediately register his meaning.</p>
<p><em>My world?</em> The red GM robe meant that he possessed the ability to manipulate the world as he saw fit. If he was already a god, why the need to announce it to everyone?</p>
<p>As Klein and I stared at each other in disbelief, the robed figure lowered its arms and continued speaking.</p>
<p>“My name is Akihiko Kayaba. As of this moment, I am the only human being alive with control over this world.”</p>
<p class="space-break">“Wha…?” I was so shocked that not only did my avatar’s breath catch in its throat, the same likely happened to my real body.</p>
<p>Akihiko Kayaba!!</p>
<p>I knew that name. I couldn’t <em>not</em> know it.</p>
<p>He was the brilliant young game designer and quantum physicist who transformed niche game studio Argus into one of the foremost developers in the business. Not only was he the executive director of <em>SAO</em>, he also designed the basic foundation of the NerveGear unit itself.</p>
<p>Like most other hardcore gamers, I held a deep reverence for Kayaba. I bought every magazine profile and reread his precious few interviews until I could practically quote them from memory. Just the brief sound of that voice conjured my mental image of Kayaba, looking smart in his ever-present white lab coat.</p>
<p>But he’d always preferred to stay out of the spotlight, avoiding media attention wherever possible, and he’d certainly never stepped into an active GM role within a game like this—so why now?</p>
<p>I stood stock-still, urging my mind back into motion, trying to grasp the situation. But try as I might, the words that followed from the empty hood mocked my feeble attempts at comprehension.</p>
<p>“You have likely noticed by now that the log-out button has disappeared from the main menu. This is not a bug. I repeat, this is not a bug—it is a feature of <em>Sword Art Online</em>.”</p>
<p><a id="page-26"/>“F-feature…?” Klein muttered, his voice cracking.</p>
<p>The smooth baritone continued, overlapping the end of his question.</p>
<p>“From this point onward, you will be unable to freely log out of the game until the summit of this castle is conquered.”</p>
<p>The word <em>castle</em> snagged on the inside of my brain. Where was there a castle in the Town of Beginnings? But my momentary confusion was instantly wiped away by his next statement.</p>
<p>“Furthermore, the NerveGear cannot be removed or shut down via external means. If forceful means of exit are attempted…”</p>
<p>A pause.</p>
<p>A palpably heavy silence filled the air, ten thousand breaths held in apprehension. The next words came with a slow, awful finality.</p>
<p>“…the high-powered microwaves emitted by the NerveGear will scramble your brain and shut down your vital processes.”</p>
<p>Klein and I stared at each other for several seconds, our faces blank masks. It was as though our brains themselves refused to process the words. But Kayaba’s simple ultimatum shot through my body from head to toe with a palpable impact.</p>
<p><em>Scramble our brains.</em></p>
<p>In other words, it would kill us. Turning off the NerveGear’s power or attempting to remove it from the user’s head would prove fatal, according to Kayaba.</p>
<p>Murmurs rippled through the crowd, but no one screamed or raged. Everyone present, including me, either couldn’t or wouldn’t process the implications of his declaration.</p>
<p>Klein’s hand slowly rose to his head, attempting to grasp the NerveGear that existed only in the outside world. He let out a dry, quick laugh.</p>
<p>“Ha-ha…what’s he talking about? Is he crazy? That’s not possible. The NerveGear’s just a game system. It can’t possibly, like…destroy our brains or whatever. Right, Kirito?” he finished in a rasping shout. Despite his pleading glare, I couldn’t bring myself to nod in agreement.</p>
<p><a id="page-27"/>The underside of the NerveGear helmet is embedded with countless transmitters that emit faint electromagnetic waves, sending false sensations directly to the brain cells. It’s a piece of ultra-sophisticated, cutting-edge tech, but it also works on the same fundamental principles as a home appliance that has been around for decades: the kitchen microwave.</p>
<p>With enough power, the NerveGear could potentially vibrate the moisture in the brain cells, causing frictional heat strong enough to steam the brain from the inside out. But…</p>
<p>“…In principle, it’s not impossible…but he has to be bluffing. I mean, if you just pull the plug on the NerveGear, how can it produce enough juice to do that? Unless it’s packing some massive…batteries…”</p>
<p>Klein understood exactly why I trailed off. He moaned, a desperate expression plastered across his face. “But…it <em>is</em>. I heard that a third of the unit’s weight is battery cells. But still, this is ridiculous! What if there’s a blackout?”</p>
<p>As though he heard Klein’s roar, Kayaba continued his proclamation.</p>
<p>“To be more specific, the brain-frying sequence will commence upon any of the following circumstances: ten minutes of no external power; two hours of network disconnection; removal, dismantling, or destruction of the NerveGear. The authorities and media in the outside world have already announced the details of these conditions to the general public. At present, the friends and family of several players have already ignored these warnings and attempted to forcefully remove their NerveGears, the result being…”</p>
<p>The echoing, metallic voice paused for a breath.</p>
<p>“…that sadly, two hundred and thirteen players have already been permanently retired from both Aincrad and the real world.”</p>
<p>A single shrill scream rang out from somewhere in the crowd. But the majority of players were stock-still, either unable or refusing to believe, their faces displaying absentminded smiles. Like them, my mind resisted Kayaba’s words, but my body was <a id="page-28"/>more honest, my legs beginning to quaver. I hobbled backward several steps on buckling knees, trying not to fall. Klein simply fell straight onto his rear, his face still empty.</p>
<p><em>Two hundred and thirteen players.</em></p>
<p>The words reverberated over and over in my ears.</p>
<p>Was Kayaba telling the truth? Were more than two hundred people who had been playing this game just minutes ago already dead?</p>
<p>Some of them must have been beta testers like me. Possibly even people whose faces or names I recognized from my time playing. And now Kayaba said their NerveGears had fried their brains and killed them?</p>
<p>“I won’t believe it…I refuse to believe it,” Klein muttered from the paving stones, his voice hoarse. “It’s just a threat. He can’t do this. Quit dicking us around and let us out already. I’ve got better things to do than sit around while your little stunt plays out. That’s all this is, right? A stunt. A bit of excitement to juice up the game’s grand opening, yeah?”</p>
<p>The same thoughts had been racing through my mind at the exact same time. But Kayaba’s dry, practical announcement continued, disregarding the wishes of his captive audience.</p>
<p>“There is no need to worry about your physical bodies back in the real world. The current state of the game and today’s fatalities have been covered far and wide on television, radio, and the Internet. The danger that someone will forcefully remove your NerveGear is already much diminished. The two-hour offline leeway period should provide enough time for your physical bodies to be transported to hospitals and other long-term care facilities with proper security, eliminating concerns over your physical well-being. You may rest assured…and focus on conquering the game.”</p>
<p>“Wha—?” A scream finally ripped out from my throat. “What do you mean? Conquer the game? You expect us to just sit back and enjoy the game when we can’t even log out?”</p>
<p><a id="page-29"/>I glared at the headless crimson robe stretching up to nearly the upper floor and continued bellowing.</p>
<p>“This isn’t even a game anymore!”</p>
<p>And again, as though he heard my voice, Akihiko Kayaba’s monotone continued.</p>
<p>“However, please proceed with caution. As of this moment, <em>Sword Art Online</em> is no longer a game to you. It is another reality. The standard means of player resurrection will no longer function as they did previously. When your hit points dwindle to zero, your avatar will be permanently deleted…”</p>
<p>I knew what he was about to say before the words even came.</p>
<p class="space-break">“…and the NerveGear will destroy your brain.”</p>
<p class="space-break">I felt an instant urge to burst into a high-pitched laughter bubbling up from my gut and had to stifle the impulse. In the upper left-hand corner of my vision sat a thin bar, glowing blue. When I trained my eyes on the bar, the numbers 342/342 popped up next to it.</p>
<p>My hit points. My remaining life.</p>
<p>If that number hit zero, I would <em>actually</em> die—the game console would fry my brain with microwaves and kill me on the spot, according to Kayaba.</p>
<p>Yes, this was a game. A game in which my life hung on the line. A game of death.</p>
<p>During the two-month beta test, I must have died a hundred times. When that happened, you popped back to life with a cackle in Blackiron Palace to the north of the square, free to rush back out to the battlefield.</p>
<p>That’s how RPGs work. You die and die, learning lessons each time and honing your skills. But now we couldn’t do that? Die once, and we were dead forever? Without even the option of quitting the game?</p>
<p>“This is ridiculous,” I muttered.</p>
<p><a id="page-30"/>Who would possibly venture out into the dangers of the wilderness under those circumstances? Everyone was bound to stay within the safety of town.</p>
<p>But as though anticipating the skepticism of all players present, Kayaba issued his next challenge.</p>
<p>“There is only one condition through which you can be freed from this game. Simply reach the hundredth floor at the pinnacle of Aincrad and defeat the final boss who awaits you there. In that instant, all surviving players will be able to safely log out once again.”</p>
<p>A moment of sheer silence.</p>
<p>I finally realized the meaning of his earlier phrase, “Conquer the summit of this castle.” He wasn’t referring to just any castle; he was referring to Aincrad itself, the mammoth floating fortress on whose very bottom floor we now stood, ninety-nine floors stacked above our heads.</p>
<p>“Clear the hundredth floor?” Klein shouted abruptly. He clambered to his feet and shook his fist in the air. “W-we can’t possibly do that! I heard the entire group of beta testers barely got through the very start of the game!”</p>
<p>He was right. A thousand players took part in <em>SAO</em>’s beta test, and when the two-month period was over, we’d only cleared the sixth floor. True, there were nearly ten times that number taking part in the game now, but how long would it take to reach a full hundred floors?</p>
<p>My guess was that the entire square was wrestling with the same apprehension. The silent tension shifted into low rumblings. But I wasn’t hearing sounds of fear or despair. Most likely, the majority of players here couldn’t make up their minds whether this was true danger or simply a flashy opening ceremony held in poor taste. Kayaba’s statements were so bizarre and dreadful to comprehend that the story lacked credibility.</p>
<p>I tilted my head upward, glaring at the empty robe, desperately trying to adjust to this new reality.</p>
<p>I couldn’t log out. I couldn’t get back to my real room, my real <a id="page-31"/>life. The only way that could happen was if someone reached the top of this castle and defeated the final boss. And if at any point my HP reached zero, I would die. Real death. I would cease to exist.</p>
<p>But…</p>
<p>No matter how hard I tried to accept this information as truth, I simply couldn’t. Just five or six hours ago, I’d eaten my mother’s home-cooked lunch, spoken to my sister, and climbed the stairs to my room. And now I couldn’t go back? Could this actually be happening?</p>
<p>The red robe once again preempted the thoughts of all present, sweeping its white glove and continuing in a voice devoid of emotion.</p>
<p>“Finally, let me prove to you that this world is now your one and only reality. I’ve prepared a gift for all of you. You may find it in your item storage.”</p>
<p>Without thinking, I made the two-fingered downward swipe to pull open the menu. Others around me made the same motion, the square filling with electronic chiming sounds. When I hit the inventory tab on the menu screen, I noticed something new at the top of the list.</p>
<p>It was labeled H<span class="small-caps">AND</span> M<span class="small-caps">IRROR</span>. Curious, I tapped the name and selected the <span class="small-caps">MATERIALIZE</span> button from the list of options. With a sparkling sound effect, a small square mirror popped into being.</p>
<p>I reluctantly picked up the mirror, but nothing happened. All I saw reflected in the surface was the painstakingly crafted face of my virtual avatar. Tilting my neck, I glanced at Klein. Like me, the chiseled samurai stood staring into his own mirror.</p>
<p>Then…</p>
<p>A brilliant white light enveloped Klein and several other characters nearby. In the next instant, my vision went blank as the same light surrounded me. A few seconds later, it faded, returning the same old sights.</p>
<p>Except…</p>
<p>This wasn’t the Klein I recognized. The mismatched plate armor, ugly bandanna, and spiky red hair were the same as before. It was <a id="page-32"/>the face that had changed. The slender eyes were now bulging and round. The slender bridge of his nose was a beak. And his fine cheeks and chin were now covered in scraggly facial hair. If his former avatar was a gallant young samurai, the new Klein was a wandering ronin—or worse yet, a bandit.</p>
<p>Forgetting everything for an instant, I muttered, “Who…are you?”</p>
<p>The man before me returned the question. “Me? Who are <em>you</em>?”</p>
<p>And in a flash of enlightenment, I understood the meaning of Kayaba’s “gift.” Raising my own mirror again, I stared at the reflection within.</p>
<p>Black hair in an inoffensive style. Gentle eyes set beneath long bangs. A soft, rounded face that still got me confused for a sister instead of a brother when strangers saw me side by side with my sister.</p>
<p>There was none of Kirito’s previous heroic look. The face I saw in the mirror…</p>
<p>…was the real-life face I’d been trying to escape.</p>
<p>“Whoa…it’s me…” Klein murmured into his mirror, flabbergasted. We faced each other again and shouted in unison.</p>
<p>“<em>You’re</em> Klein?”</p>
<p>“<em>You’re</em> Kirito?”</p>
<p>The voice-filtering function had apparently stopped working, shifting the sound of our voices as well, but that was the least of our concerns.</p>
<p>Both mirrors slipped through our fingers, hitting the ground simultaneously with a faint <em>crack</em>. A quick glance around showed that the prior gathering of wildly colored, beautiful fantasy characters had changed dramatically. It was as though someone had taken the crowd of a real video game convention and given them swords and armor to wear. Even the ratio of men to women had gone frightfully askance.</p>
<p>How was this possible? We had all gone from our virtual avatars to our real-life appearances. It was still presented in polygonal form with a few slight details felt out, but the degree <a id="page-34"/>of accuracy was startling. It was like I’d undergone a full-body scan.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>