<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<title>Sword Art Online 1: Aincrad</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:3c6d9d4f-15c4-4261-a9d2-0c6bda3ad832" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter008b">
<p>Their large parties and lengthy control of hunting areas led to an understanding among other players to avoid the Army whenever possible. Then again, since they preferred to keep the peace and expand control in the weaker areas beneath the fiftieth floor, you didn’t have to worry about running into them on the front lines.</p>
<p>The twelve warriors marched down the path before us, their heavy boots and armor grinding loudly as they passed by. We held our breath until they disappeared farther into the forest.</p>
<p>Given the difficulties of simply procuring a first-day copy of <em>Sword Art Online</em>, every player currently held prisoner inside the game was presumably a hardcore gamer. And if any species of human being is allergic to rules and regulations, it’s a gamer. It was abnormal that any group of gamers could achieve that rigid discipline, even after two years’ time. They had to be an elite squad within the Army.</p>
<p>After confirming that they’d left the radius of my Search skill on the map, we both let out a long breath, still crouched over.</p>
<p>“So the rumor was true,” Asuna muttered, wrapped up in my coat.</p>
<p>“What rumor?”</p>
<p>“I heard it at a guild meeting. The Army’s changing focus and coming to the upper floors. Remember, they were formed to beat the game, just like we were. But after they got burned clearing the twenty-fifth floor, they stopped pushing upward and concentrated on strengthening their organization instead. Well, apparently there’s been some unrest from within about that. So they decided that rather than just sending chaotic waves of <a id="page-90"/>players into the labyrinth, they’d arrange smaller, elite parties to show their dedication to clearing the game. The report said they were just about to send out their first group.”</p>
<p>“So it’s mostly just a bit of propaganda for their organization? Still, do they know what they’re doing, charging into unfamiliar territory like that? I mean, they did look pretty tough, but…”</p>
<p>“Maybe they’re looking to head straight for the boss.”</p>
<p>Every floor had a boss monster deep in its labyrinth that guarded the staircase up to the next level. They only appeared once and were frightfully strong, but there was always a buzz after the latest boss fell. If they wanted good publicity, this was one way to get it.</p>
<p>“So that explains their numbers…Still, this is insane. No one’s even seen the seventy-fourth-floor boss yet. Normally, you send out numerous scouting parties to learn the boss’s power and patterns, then put together a huge raid group.”</p>
<p>“And it’s always a cooperative effort between multiple guilds. Are they planning to join in the effort, too?”</p>
<p>“We’ll see. Anyway, they can’t be reckless enough to challenge the boss blind like that. C’mon, let’s go and hope we don’t run into them inside.”</p>
<p>Reluctantly, I stood up and pulled my coat off of Asuna. She shivered in the open air.</p>
<p>“Brr, it’s almost winter…I’ll need a coat soon. Where’d you get that one?”</p>
<p>“Um…I think it was at a player shop in West Algade.”</p>
<p>“You’ll have to show me where when we’re done.”</p>
<p>She lithely leaped down to the path nearly ten feet below. I followed her—when your stats adjusted your fall damage, drops like this were nothing.</p>
<p>The sun was just about to reach the apex of its daily arc. We rushed ahead toward the labyrinth, paying close attention to our maps. We made it through the forest without running into a single monster and emerged in a field of sky-blue flowers. The path <a id="page-91"/>cut straight through to the west, and the ominous presence of the labyrinth tower loomed beyond.</p>
<p>Most labyrinth towers had an especially large room at the top where a boss monster would guard the staircase to the next level of Aincrad—in this case, the seventy-fifth floor. Once you defeated the boss, climbed the stairs, and made your way to the town on the next floor, a simple activation of the teleport gate there would officially mark the conquest of another floor.</p>
<p>“Town opening” was always a rowdy and exciting time, when players from lower floors would flood into the new outpost in search of fresh goods and shops. Today was the ninth day since reaching the seventy-fourth floor, which meant it was about the right time for the boss’s lair to be discovered.</p>
<p>The labyrinth beyond the field was a cylindrical, sandstone structure colored reddish brown. Asuna and I had visited it multiple times between the two of us, but the closer you approached and the more it seemed to blot out the sky, the more imposing it became. It was only one hundredth the height of Aincrad itself. Despite knowing it was impossible, I harbored a secret desire to one day see the entirety of Aincrad from the outside.</p>
<p>The Army was nowhere in sight—they were likely inside already. Our footsteps quickened as we grew closer and closer to the mouth of the tower.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>