<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<title>Sword Art Online 1: Aincrad</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:3c6d9d4f-15c4-4261-a9d2-0c6bda3ad832" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter008">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a id="page-85"/><a href="toc.xhtml#toc-chapter008">8</a></h1>
<p class="noindent">The forest path leading to the labyrinth was enveloped in a comforting warmth that was a far cry from the previous night’s eeriness. Morning light fell through the branches in golden pillars, and delicate butterflies flitted in and out of the gaps. Unfortunately, they were only a visual effect, not actual material creatures, so there was no use trying to catch them.</p>
<p>The soft, thick undergrowth made pleasant rustling noises as we marched through it.</p>
<p>“I’ve noticed you’re always dressed the same way,” Asuna teased. I looked down at my outfit with a start. An aging black leather coat, black shirt, and black pants. Hardly a sign of any metallic armor.</p>
<p>“Uh, I don’t mind. If I have money for clothes, I’d rather spend it on good food…”</p>
<p>“Is there a logical reason for all that black? Or is it just for style?”</p>
<p>“W-well, speak for yourself. What’s up with that stupid red and white?”</p>
<p>As we chatted, I ran a Search scan out of habit. No sign of any monsters. But…</p>
<p>“What else am I going to wear? It’s my guild uniform…Hmm? What’s up—”</p>
<p><a id="page-86"/>“Hang on.” I cut her off, raising my hand. There was a player presence right at the edge of my Search radius. I focused on the distance behind us, and a number of green cursors that represented human players sprang into sight.</p>
<p>It couldn’t be a gang of criminals. They preferred targets that were clearly weaker than themselves, so they virtually never ventured to the front lines, where the strongest players gathered. On top of that, any player who committed even a single crime was marked as a criminal for a lengthy period, their green cursor automatically displaying orange as a warning to all. No, what concerned me was the number and formation of these players.</p>
<p>I called up the map screen and set it to be visible so that Asuna could see as well. The map displayed our forest surroundings, and in combination with my Search scan, a series of green dots represented these new visitors. There were twelve in total.</p>
<p>“That’s a lot…”</p>
<p>I agreed. Parties were harder to manage when the number grew too high, so five or six was considered ideal.</p>
<p>“And look at the way they’re lined up.”</p>
<p>The grouping of dots at the edge of the map was coming this way at considerable speed, arranged in two orderly columns. Dungeons were one thing, but I’d never seen such precision out in the open, where there was little danger to worry about.</p>
<p>Had I been able to at least see the levels of the members, I might have discerned their identities, but the cursor didn’t display names or levels of absolute strangers. It was designed that way by default to protect against PKing—player killing—which meant that in this case, I’d have to see them for myself and make an educated guess based on their equipment.</p>
<p>I closed the map and looked at Asuna.</p>
<p>“I just want to be sure. Let’s find a hiding spot and watch them pass.”</p>
<p>“Good idea.” She nodded nervously. We left the path and climbed up an embankment, hiding in the shadows of a clump of <a id="page-87"/>bushes about our height. It was the perfect position for watching the road.</p>
<p>“Ah…”</p>
<p>Asuna was looking down at her outfit. Red and white wasn’t the greatest combination for blending in with the undergrowth.</p>
<p>“What should I do? I don’t have a change of clothes…”</p>
<p>The lights on the map were bearing down. They’d be coming into range any second now.</p>
<p>“Pardon me.”</p>
<p>I opened up the front of my leather coat and swung my arm around Asuna, who was crouching at my side. She glared at me for an instant but let herself be covered by the protection of the coat. It might not look great, but it had an excellent hiding bonus. With as many concealing factors as we had, they wouldn’t find us without an exceedingly high-rank Search skill.</p>
<p>“See? Sometimes it helps to wear a one-color outfit.”</p>
<p>“Oh, shut up! Here they come.”</p>
<p>She put a finger to her lips. We crouched lower and heard the first signs of rhythmic, diligent footsteps. Finally, the group appeared around the bend in the path ahead.</p>
<p>They were all swordsmen, outfitted in matching gunmetal armor and dark green battlewear. It was designed to be practical rather than ornamental, but the front six did carry large shields emblazoned with the image of a familiar castle.</p>
<p>The front line bore one-handed swords, the rear line halberds. All wore long helmet visors that hid their faces from view. Their progress was so clean and mechanical that it gave the impression that the system had cloned a dozen copies of the same NPC and set them marching across the map together.</p>
<p>There was no mistaking it: They were from the Army, the mega-guild based out of the bottom floor of Aincrad. Asuna had realized this as well; she froze next to me, her breath held.</p>
<p>They didn’t antagonize ordinary players. In fact, they were the most proactive, player-run source upholding any kind of justice <a id="page-89"/>in the game. But their methods could be extreme. They immediately attacked without hesitation when they spotted a marked criminal—nicknamed “orange players” for the color of their cursors—and disarmed those who surrendered, imprisoning them in the jail beneath their base at Blackiron Palace. Rumor also spoke of more unsavory ends for those who did not surrender and failed to escape the fight.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>