<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<title>Sword Art Online 1: Aincrad</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:3c6d9d4f-15c4-4261-a9d2-0c6bda3ad832" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter013">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a id="page-131"/><a href="toc.xhtml#toc-chapter013">13</a></h1>
<p class="noindent">The main town of the newly opened seventy-fifth floor was built like an ancient Roman city. According to the map, its name was Collinia. Between the warriors, the traders, and the tourists who weren’t going to spend time at the front line but still wanted to see the new city, it was a madhouse of activity. On top of all that, the grand event unfolding today meant that the teleport gate square had been bustling since sunrise.</p>
<p>The town was built of massive, chalky-white blocks of stone. In addition to the temple-like buildings and canals, there was one other significant feature of Collinia—an enormous coliseum looming over the teleport gate. Coincidentally, it was the perfect place for the duel between Heathcliff and me. And yet…</p>
<p>“Fire-breathing corn, just ten col!”</p>
<p>“Nice cold black ale here!”</p>
<p>The entrance to the coliseum was buzzing with merchants hawking suspicious food to the lengthy lines of visitors hoping to see the event.</p>
<p>“Wh-what’s going on here?” I asked Asuna, completely stunned.</p>
<p>“I…don’t know…”</p>
<p>“Hey, are those KoB members selling tickets over there?! Why has this turned into a huge event?!”</p>
<p><a id="page-132"/>“I…don’t know…”</p>
<p>“This wasn’t what Heathcliff was planning all along, was it…?”</p>
<p>“I’m guessing this is Daizen’s handiwork. I tell you, those accountants know their business.” She chuckled. My shoulders slumped.</p>
<p>“Let’s run away, Asuna. We’ll find a nice secluded little village down around the twenties and tend to some fields.”</p>
<p>“I wouldn’t mind,” she said, straight-faced. “But I have a feeling that if you run away from all of <em>this</em>, you’ll be absolutely infamous.”</p>
<p>“Damn…”</p>
<p>“Well, you made your bed, and now you have to sleep in it. Oh, Daizen!”</p>
<p>I raised my head and saw a very portly man with a rippling belly approaching, proving definitively that it was, in fact, possible for the red-and-white KoB uniform to look bad on someone.</p>
<p>“Thank ye kindly, thank ye kindly!” he called out, a wide grin plastered across his round face. “We’re doin’ a brisk business on account o’ you, Kirito! The only thing that’d make this better is if ya decided to hold it every month!”</p>
<p>“In your dreams!”</p>
<p>“Come, the changin’ room is right this way. Go on, my friend!”</p>
<p>I dejectedly followed after the plodding man. My mood was quickly growing fatalistic.</p>
<p>The changing room was a small chamber that bordered the arena grounds. Daizen showed me to the door, then said something about adjusting odds and disappeared. I couldn’t even muster up a snappy reply. The stadium must have been full, since I could hear the crowd from there.</p>
<p>Once we were alone, Asuna squeezed my wrist in both hands and looked me straight in the face.</p>
<p>“Even in a one-hit match, you have to watch out for the critical hit on a heavy attack. There are aspects to his sword skills that even I don’t know about. If you feel endangered at any time, just <a id="page-133"/>resign. And if you push yourself like the last time, I’m holding it against you!”</p>
<p>“Worry about Heathcliff, not me.”</p>
<p>I gave her a wry grin and patted her shoulders.</p>
<p>On top of the distant thunder of the crowd, an amplified voice was announcing the start of the match. I pulled my swords just a sliver out of the scabbards crossed over my back and then pushed them back in with a satisfying <em>ching</em>. The square of light leading out of the waiting room beckoned.</p>
<p class="space-break">The circular arena was surrounded by fully packed stands arranged in steps. There had to be at least a thousand people gathered. I could see Agil and Klein in the front row, shouting rather unsavory suggestions like “Cut him down!” and “Kill him!”</p>
<p>I stopped when I reached the center of the coliseum. As soon as I did, a red silhouette appeared from the waiting room on the other side. The cheers grew louder.</p>
<p>Heathcliff wasn’t wearing the usual KoB pattern of red on a white background; this time it was a full crimson surcoat. Like me, he chose a minimum of armor, but it was hard to ignore the enormous white crucifix shield on his left hand. His sword must have been equipped behind the shield, as I could see the hilt protruding over the top.</p>
<p>He strode up matter-of-factly, paused to glance around at the crowd, and gave me a pained grin.</p>
<p>“I’m sorry about this, Kirito. I didn’t realize it’d turned into such a production.”</p>
<p>“I should collect appearance fees.”</p>
<p>“…No. You’ll be a member of the guild at the end of this duel. I’ll treat it as a regular assignment.”</p>
<p>He stopped smiling, and I felt the overwhelming force of his brass-colored eyes again. They were so overpowering that I stumbled back a step. We were lying on beds far, far apart in the real world, everything between us a mere exchange of digital data, <a id="page-134"/>but I felt something powerfully ethereal from him—a palpable, murderous intent.</p>
<p>With a mental flick of my brain, I was in battle mode. The roar of the crowd died away as I focused solely on Heathcliff’s gaze. Even the colors around me began to shift, as though my mind was already accelerating.</p>
<p>Heathcliff looked away, backed up to a distance of about ten yards, and raised his hand. He manipulated the game window that appeared without looking at it, and a duel message appeared in front of me. I accepted. The victory condition: first strike.</p>
<p>A countdown began. The roar of the crowd was muted down to a dull murmur.</p>
<p>All the blood in my body pulsed faster. I gripped the reins around my instinct to fight and stifled a slight hesitation. Reaching over my back with both hands, I pulled both swords out at once. This was not an opponent that I could afford to give anything but my best.</p>
<p>Heathcliff drew a slender longsword from behind his shield and held it out.</p>
<p>His form as he pointed the shield toward me was easy and natural—no imbalance, no awkward force. I suspected that attempting to guess his first move would only confuse me, and I prepared to strike with everything I had.</p>
<p>Neither of us gave our countdown windows even the briefest glance. Yet we both leaped forward at the exact instant that the word <span class="small-caps">DUEL</span> appeared in midair.</p>
<p>I darted in low, gliding just over the ground. As I reached Heathcliff, I twisted, striking down-left with my right sword. The cross shield blocked it, sending up a burst of sparks. But my attack was twofold. A tenth of a second later, my left blade slipped around the side of the shield: a dual-blade charging attack, Double Circular.</p>
<p>Just before the latter swing could hit his side, he met it with his own sword. A circular visual effect bounced off harmlessly. It was a good attack that he blocked, but this was just my initial <a id="page-135"/>greeting. The attack’s momentum allowed me to maintain distance and regroup.</p>
<p>This time, Heathcliff responded by charging with his shield. It was hard to see what his right hand was doing behind that massive cover.</p>
<p>“Tsk!” I clicked my tongue, dashing right to avoid it. I figured that if I circled in the direction of the shield, I might not see the attack’s initial location, but at least it’d be easier to avoid it.</p>
<p>Instead, Heathcliff pulled his shield up parallel to the ground and—</p>
<p>“Mmf!”</p>
<p>With a heavy grunt, he thrust the pointed end of the shield at me. The massive cross darted in close, trailing white light.</p>
<p>“Whoa!”</p>
<p>I had to cross both swords in front of me to block the blow. The powerful shock wave rattled throughout my body, and I was knocked back several feet. I jabbed my right sword into the ground to keep from falling over, did a flip in midair, and landed on my feet.</p>
<p>So the game recognized his shield as being capable of an attack. He might as well have been double wielding himself. I’d figured that having more chances to attack was my key to victory in a one-hit battle, but this was coming out of left field.</p>
<p>Heathcliff came rushing up in an attempt to deprive me of time to recover. His cross-hilt longsword blazed forth at a speed worthy of Asuna the Flash.</p>
<p>Now that he was in the midst of a combination attack, I had to keep using both swords to my utmost just to block him. Asuna had given me as much information as she possibly could about Heathcliff’s Holy Sword skill, but secondhand knowledge was a far cry from actual experience. My momentary reflexes were all that protected me from his onslaught.</p>
<p>As soon as my left sword had blocked the last upward slash of his eight-part combo, I immediately unleashed the Vorpal Strike heavy attack with my right.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>