<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<title>Sword Art Online 1: Aincrad</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:3c6d9d4f-15c4-4261-a9d2-0c6bda3ad832" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter013b">
<p><a id="page-137"/>“R…raah!!”</p>
<p>With a metallic sound like a jet engine, my glowing red thrust hit the shield right in the middle of its crucifix. It felt like hitting a brick wall, but I didn’t let that stop me.</p>
<p>The collision was explosive, and it was Heathcliff’s turn to be tossed backward. I didn’t break through the shield, but I’d felt a little bit of give. His HP bar was ever so slightly smaller, but not enough to be a decisive blow.</p>
<p>Heathcliff landed lightly on his feet and pulled back.</p>
<p>“Your reaction speed is admirable.”</p>
<p>“And your defense is beyond tough!”</p>
<p>I darted forward again. Heathcliff raised his sword and closed the distance.</p>
<p>We traded furious combinations at high speed. His shield blocked my swords; my swords blocked his. Effects and trails of various colors fizzled around us, and the shock waves echoed off the stones of the arena floor. Occasionally, a quick strike would glance weakly off of one of us, and our HP bars slowly but steadily shrank. Even if neither of us landed a powerful blow, as soon as someone had fewer than 50 percent, the match would be over.</p>
<p>But there wasn’t a single cell in my brain considering that as a means of victory. I was facing a true rival, a worthy foe, for the first time since I fell into <em>SAO</em>, and all of my senses were racing like never before. Every time I thought it couldn’t get more intense, the attacks kicked into a higher gear.</p>
<p>Again. And again. <em>Follow me if you can, Heathcliff!</em></p>
<p>I was experiencing the ecstasy of battle, the sensation of my abilities unleashed to their fullest extent. If I had to guess, I was probably smiling. As the heat of our combat reached new heights, his health fell faster and faster, and that halfway point was coming into sight.</p>
<p>In an instant, I finally saw something like emotion flash across Heathcliff’s mask of a face. What was it, panic? I felt the slightest hesitation, a tiny delay in my foe’s attack tempo.</p>
<p>“Raaaah!!”</p>
<p><a id="page-138"/>Seizing upon the moment, I abandoned all defense and went on the offensive with both swords: Starburst Stream, a double-bladed assault named for the blazing arms of a solar prominence. It bore down on Heathcliff.</p>
<p>“Hrrg…!”</p>
<p>He held up his shield to guard. I continued raining down blows, above and below, left and right. His responses grew slower and slower.</p>
<p>I was getting through!</p>
<p>It was clear that my final barrage was going to break through his defense. I saw his shield stray too far to the right, and my glowing strike from the left disappeared into Heathcliff’s body. If it hit, his HP would easily fall below 50 percent, and I’d win the duel. But—</p>
<p>—The world shifted.</p>
<p>“…?!”</p>
<p>How else could I describe it? A moment of time stolen from me, perhaps.</p>
<p>I sensed my body and everything else freeze for less than a tenth of a second. Everything except for Heathcliff. His shield, which should have been on the right, had blinked over to the left like a transition between two frames of film. It easily deflected my perfect attack, my certain victory.</p>
<p>“Wha—?”</p>
<p>Any time a major attack is blocked, the attacker is left fatally frozen for an instant. Heathcliff did not miss his chance.</p>
<p>I fell with a simple thrust of his sword, a miniscule attack delivering just enough damage to bring the duel to an end. Out of the corner of my eye, I could see the purple system text announcing the winner.</p>
<p>Battle mode disengaged. The roar of the crowd rushed back into my ears, but I was still dumbfounded.</p>
<p>“Kirito!” Asuna ran over and helped me up.</p>
<p>“Y…yeah…I’m all right.”</p>
<p>She looked pensively into my slackened face.</p>
<p><a id="page-139"/>I’d lost…</p>
<p>I still couldn’t believe it. That incredible reaction that Heathcliff managed at the end was beyond the ability of any player—of any human being. It was as though his impossible speed actually broke his polygonal model for an instant.</p>
<p>I looked up at Heathcliff, who was standing at a slight remove. Despite his victory, his face was sharp. Those metallic eyes fixed upon me for a moment, then the red paladin spun around without a word, striding through the storm of cheers to his waiting room.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>