<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<title>Sword Art Online 1: Aincrad</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:3c6d9d4f-15c4-4261-a9d2-0c6bda3ad832" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="specials-rw Copyright-rw" epub:type="copyright-page" id="Copyright01">
<h1 class="copyright-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#toc-copyright">Copyright</a></h1>
<p class="copyright-space">SWORD ART ONLINE 1: Aincrad</p>
<p class="copyright">REKI KAWAHARA</p>
<p class="copyright-space">Translation by Stephen Paul</p>
<p class="copyright">Cover art by abec</p>
<p class="copyright-space">This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents are the product of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events, locales, or persons, living or dead, is coincidental.</p>
<p class="copyright-space">SWORD ART ONLINE</p>
<p class="copyright">©REKI KAWAHARA 2009</p>
<p class="copyright">All rights reserved.</p>
<p class="copyright">Edited by ASCII MEDIA WORKS</p>
<p class="copyright">First published in Japan in 2009 by KADOKAWA CORPORATION, Tokyo.</p>
<p class="copyright">English translation rights arranged with KADOKAWA CORPORATION, Tokyo, through Tuttle-Mori Agency, Inc., Tokyo.</p>
<p class="copyright-space">English translation © 2014 by Yen Press, LLC</p>
<p class="copyright-space">Yen Press, LLC supports the right to free expression and the value of copyright. The purpose of copyright is to encourage writers and artists to produce the creative works that enrich our culture.</p>
<p class="copyright-space">The scanning, uploading, and distribution of this book without permission is a theft of the author's intellectual property. If you would like permission to use material from the book (other than for review purposes), please contact the publisher. Thank you for your support of the author's rights.</p>
<p class="copyright-space">Yen On</p>
<p class="copyright">1290 Avenue of the Americas</p>
<p class="copyright">New York, NY 10104</p>
<p class="copyright-space">Visit us at <a href="http://www.yenpress.com">yenpress.com</a></p>
<p class="copyright"><a href="http://www.facebook.com/yenpress">facebook.com/yenpress</a></p>
<p class="copyright"><a href="http://www.twitter.com/yenpress">twitter.com/yenpress</a></p>
<p class="copyright"><a href="http://www.yenpress.tumblr.com">yenpress.tumblr.com</a></p>
<p class="copyright"><a href="http://www.instagram.com/yenpress">instagram.com/yenpress</a></p>
<p class="copyright-space">First Yen On eBook Edition: May 2017</p>
<p class="copyright">Originally published in paperback in April 2014 by Yen On.</p>
<p class="copyright-space">Yen On is an imprint of Yen Press, LLC.</p>
<p class="copyright">The Yen On name and logo are trademarks of Yen Press, LLC.</p>
<p class="copyright-space">The publisher is not responsible for websites (or their content) that are not owned by the publisher.</p>
<p class="copyright-space">ISBN: 978-0-316-56085-6</p>
<p class="copyright-space">E3-20170501-JV-PC</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>